# mediamixmodeling
Media Mix Modeling(MMM) is an econometric technique to measure effectiveness of different media in the marketing initiatives. It is the most scientific way, that marketers use, to measure Return on their Marketing Investiment(ROMI). Please refer to Wikipedia to know more about MMM - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing_mix_modeling

Brands spends billions of $$ every year worldwide on advertising through different media but only few brands measure their media spendings. The recent survey by https://cmosurvey.org suggests that less than 20% brands use econometric modeling to measure marketing ROI and rest simply beleive that their media spending works but never measure. This survey also reveals that only 2.31% of total marketing budget is being spent on measuring effectiveness of marketing spends. The primary reason why marketers do not measure their media spendings are:
a. Complex : Econometric Model requires complex statistical analysis. It requires lots of volumetric data from different media sources that is challanging to collect, streamline and process.
b. Expensive : Most of the marketers beleive that measurement techniques are expensive and requires specialized knowledge and tools.

These reasons are valid but the industry need to find solution that can enable markets to count every penny they spend on media with transparency. The industry can use technology to overcome challanges that prevents markets to measure media spending. Today, technology is quiet capable to manage data collection from different sources woutout much hustles. The complexity of statistical analysis can be easily resolved by using various open source statistical analysis APIs and tools. 
